- "One cannot afford to be naive in dealing with dreams. They originate in a spirit that is not quite human, but is rather a breath of nature - a spirit of the beautiful and generous as well as of the cruel goddess" - Carl Jung, [[Man and His Symbols - Carl G Jung]]
- "\[Modern man\] his gods and demons have not disappeared at all; they have merely got new names. They keep him on the run with restlessness, vague apprehensions, psychological complications, an insatiable need for pills, alcohol, tobacco, food - and, above all, a large array of neuroses" - Carl Jung, [[Man and His Symbols - Carl G Jung]]
- "A man likes to believe that he is the master of his soul. But as long as he is unable to control his moods and emotions, or to be conscious of the myriad secret ways in which unconscious functions insinuate themselves into his arrangements and decisions, he is certainly not his own master" - Carl Jung, [[Man and His Symbols - Carl G Jung]]
- "The sad truth is that man's real life consists of a complex of inexorable opposites - day and night, birth and death, happiness and misery, good and evil. We are not even sure that one will prevail against the other, that good will overcome evil, or joy defeat pain. List is a battleground, it always has been, and always will be; and if it were not so, existence would come to an end" - Carl Jung, [[Man and His Symbols - Carl G Jung]]
- "Our intellect has created a new world that dominates nature, and has populated it with monstrous machines. The latter are so indubitably useful that we cannot see even a possibility of getting rid of them or our subservience to them. Man is bound to follow the adventurous promptings of his scientific and inventive mind and to admire himself for his splendid achievements. At the same time, his genius shows the uncanny tendency to invent things that become more and more dangerous, because they represent better and better means for wholesale suicide" - Carl Jung, [[Man and His Symbols - Carl G Jung]]
- "In spite of our proud domination of nature, we are still her victims, for we have not even learned to control our own nature. Slowly but, it appears, inevitably, we are courting disaster" - Carl Jung, [[Man and His Symbols - Carl G Jung]]
- "Somewhere, right at the bottom of one's own being, one generally does know where one should go and what one should do. But there are times when the clown we call 'I' behaves in such a distracting fashion that the inner voice cannot make its presence felt" - M.-L. von Franz, [[Man and His Symbols - Carl G Jung]]
- "Pain and suffering are always inevitable for a large intelligence and a deep heart. The really great men must, I think, have great sadness on earth." - Fyodor Dostoevsky, [[Crime and Punishment - Fyodor Dostoevsky]]
- "To go wrong in one's own way is better than to go right in someone else's." - Fyodor Dostoevsky, [[Crime and Punishment - Fyodor Dostoevsky]]
- "'What is hell?' I maintain that it is the suffering of being unable to love. Once in infinite existence, immeasurable in time and space, a spiritual creature was given on his coming to earth, the power of saying, 'I am and I love.'" - Fyodor Dostoevsky, [[The Brothers Karamazov - Fyodor Dostoyevsky]]
- "naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return into the earth" - Fyodor Dostoevsky, [[The Brothers Karamazov - Fyodor Dostoyevsky]]
- "it's the great mystery of human life that old grief passes gradually into quiet, tender joy" - Fyodor Dostoevsky, [[The Brothers Karamazov - Fyodor Dostoyevsky]]
- "Love life more then the meaning of it?" - Fyodor Dostoevsky, [[The Brothers Karamazov - Fyodor Dostoyevsky]]